So let's first write this in TypeScript
it should be very easy I think everybody
should be able to do this if you
want to type along with type along
I'll make a little bit of time for
you at the end.
So I am going to go back to projects I'm
gonna make a direct call to TypeScript and
I'm gonna go to Typescript and
I am going to what do we do We
yarn a knit why we get a knit.
We yarn add ts- node
typeScript types node.
Don't forget all those things, right?
Start a new quick little typescript
project to get everything in there and so
I'll give you guys one
second to get ready.
You're probably also asking yourself how
did he move between those folders so fast
well it's this beautiful thing I called
T mux sessioniser and it's fantastic.
Where could you find out information
about that dev productivity on front
end masters.com/courses/found
I'm proud heavy.
So we can create a directory of course
called source that's pretty much how
everything's always done
in the TypeScript world and
let's create a nice little file called P1.
You can call it what you want it can
be in the main file doesn't really
matter, right?
We're not too concerned
about all those things.
So let's jump back to our input.
By the way, if you aren't following along,
it's the primary and God GitHub Pages.
You may want to be copying this input.
It will be a little bit difficult if you
don't, so obviously the prime mission can
have IOTS go rust it's under a section
lessons cuz you can just click into it, so
just go to this top part right up here and
we're right here.
So everyone go here grab
your input [SOUND] right,
cuz that's what we're gonna need to
do to do the basic testing of this.
We're gonna go back here, I'm gonna
zoom this out just a little bit and
let's create a quick function get input
that's going to of course return a string
and return with those beautiful ticks.
All of that data right?
Now, we're gonna just do this in a very
procedural way just make it easy we'll
do something a little bit more
functional coming up here but
let's just start procedural and
we'll move from there.
So let's create a function parse
line it's gonna take in a line.
And it's gonna return out a number
of effectively a tuple right,
cuz it's what do I need to change
up never forget that there you go.
How do I need to change my direction?
So pretty straightforward when it comes to
JavaScript, JavaScript has lLovely string
parsing little dangerous when it comes
to numbers but overall very lovely.
So I can go like this const direction
amount I'm gonna call this thing a and
go line dot split The whitespace
of course, right?
That makes pretty much most sense then
of course const amount equals plus
a that just converted into a number.
If you don't know that one that's
always a great one it's just so
people always get confused like what's
the plus side mean well it's actually,
All right, there we go.
Of course, if dirt equals forward,
don't forget all three equal signs.
Because in this language you need
to be very equal, all right?
If it's this, if it's that then of
course we return amount and zero.
Else if dirt equals up,
then let's just return zero and
negative amount remember and
of course at the end there's only
one more condition we return.
And we've pretty much solved
the problem at this point, right?
I mean this is not a very complex problem
but I want to make sure you guys type
this feel it you really understand
the point of this problem.
Because when we do it and go, it's just
gonna enough different if you don't have
your ID setup hopefully I mean easiest to
use something like IntelliJ or VS code.
I hate I know I have to say this VS code,
but Yu can also use VIm, but
you have to have your LSP setup.
If you use a COC, it's just COC install,
I think go really easy to do if you use
neovim LSP takes a little bit more effort.
Alright, there we go.
And so we have this beautiful parse line,
which means really,
all we need to do at this point
is we just need to have our
initial starting point and
then just add those values into it, right?
So I can go get input.
I can split on the new line right so
every line is something
I want read from there I
can map x into parse line.
All right, and take out x.
So there you go.
This is looking pretty good.
We're like mostly there.
And if we were to just simply
go like this items, right?
We could see the it's just an array
of tuples of numbers, right?
Okay, good.
So we are going the right direction.
We have done what we're
supposed to be doing.
Thank you TS server for
being actually a part pretty great.
TFS server for all of its things it
actually has an amazing LSP on it
the fact that it's doing this all nice
I just really appreciate that and so
then I guess we can use my least favorite.
First construct, which is a reduce I just
met, I never made a reduce that I like,
I always find that I end up getting upset
at these things, but we'll use it anyways.
And our initial position is 00 of course,
because remember,
we're trying to be cool like
the cool TypeScript kids.
We got to use functional nature.
Nobody's uses for loops anymore.
So we're gonna use this and
of course acc zero plus equals
my goodness plus equals dir
actually is just, where are you?
You're really just amount at this point
amount zero paste that in get those
two and of course return x as you can see,
x is just the number number.
We're just adding them all
together walking through and
if I've done this correctly,
I believe my two values should be 15 and
10 multiplied together of course,
would be 150.
And so we gotta go const out equals this.
You'll see that it's just a tuple awesome.
We've maintained our correct
type at the end, and
now we should be able to console.log out
and then we can go out to 0 out [1].
So long as I didn't mess anything up,
which I'm really hoping I didn't,
this should just work.
Put a trademark on it at this point,
normally what we would be doing
is taking a twitch prediction and
did I get it right first try.
I believe I did.
All right, so I'm gonna go a little
npx ts node and go source p 1, right?
I'm just gonna execute ts node and
run this thing and if we've done it
all correctly we see it Yay 1510 150.
Yes I knew the answer ahead of time
it's almost as if I've done this before.
Are you guys excited to do
the rust side of things?
Yeah, I'm pretty excited Go
we're doing go because go
honestly just let just a side
note if you came to me and said.
All right Brian, I'm obviously paying
you seven figure salary to come here and
help us with our startup.
What language do we choose?
We need to get this out
as soon as possible.
I'm gonna say go.
Go is just The work and man's language.
You can get through stuff so fast.
It just is so simple and I find that I
have the least complications with mess up
in logic while maintaining the most speed.